docs/build/tooling/oracles.md, before:

---
head:
  - - meta
    - name: "twitter:title"
      content: Oracles | zkSync Docs
---

# Oracles

### **Overview**

Welcome to the Oracles page, a comprehensive hub dedicated to interacting with oracle services on zkSync Era. As the demand for decentralized applications continues, the need for reliable and efficient oracle services becomes paramount. Within these sections, you'll unearth specialized usage guides and tangible examples designed to facilitate seamless interactions with a variety of different oracle services.

### Chainlink

[Chainlink](https://docs.chain.link/data-feeds/price-feeds/addresses?network=zksync&page=1) private feeds provide secure, reliable, and tamper-proof price data for your smart contracts.

### DIA

[DIA](https://docs.diadata.org/products/token-price-feeds) token price feeds provide smart contract real-time price information of 3,000+ cryptocurrencies, transparently sourced from 80+ trusted, high-volume DEXs and CEXs. Check out the usage guide below to get started today!

### Redstone

[Redstone](https://docs.redstone.finance/docs/introduction) delivers frequently updated, reliable, and diverse data feeds for your dApp and smart contracts. Check out all the price feeds available to zkSync Era and get started with the provided usage guide.

### Pyth

[Pythnet](https://docs.pyth.network/price-feeds) price feeds use a "pull" price update model, where users are responsible for posting price updates on-chain when needed. Checkout the usage guide to get started today!

### Gelato

[Gelato](https://docs.gelato.network/web3-services/vrf/understanding-vrf) provides access to Verifiable Random Functions (VRF) on zkSync. VRFs are cryptographic primitives that generate pseudorandom numbers in a way that is provably secure and verifiable. A VRF allows a holder of a private key to produce a random number along with a proof that the number was generated legitimately (making it publically verifable). More information, including how to use VRFs in your dApp, can be found in the Gelato docs.

### Usage guides

- [RedStone](../tutorials/tooling-guides/redstone.md)

### Contribute

We believe in collective growth. If you've traversed the oracles' maze and have insights or guides to share, we urge you to contribute. Your knowledge could be the beacon for many. Let's co-create and expand the repository of oracle wisdom on zkSync Era.

Commit message:

Update oracles.md to add Tellor

docs/build/tooling/oracles.md, after:

---
head:
  - - meta
    - name: "twitter:title"
      content: Oracles | zkSync Docs
---

# Oracles

### **Overview**

Welcome to the Oracles page, a comprehensive hub dedicated to interacting with oracle services on zkSync Era. As the demand for decentralized applications continues, the need for reliable and efficient oracle services becomes paramount. Within these sections, you'll unearth specialized usage guides and tangible examples designed to facilitate seamless interactions with a variety of different oracle services.

### Chainlink

[Chainlink](https://docs.chain.link/data-feeds/price-feeds/addresses?network=zksync&page=1) private feeds provide secure, reliable, and tamper-proof price data for your smart contracts.

### DIA

[DIA](https://docs.diadata.org/products/token-price-feeds) token price feeds provide smart contract real-time price information of 3,000+ cryptocurrencies, transparently sourced from 80+ trusted, high-volume DEXs and CEXs. Check out the usage guide below to get started today!

### Redstone

[Redstone](https://docs.redstone.finance/docs/introduction) delivers frequently updated, reliable, and diverse data feeds for your dApp and smart contracts. Check out all the price feeds available to zkSync Era and get started with the provided usage guide.

### Pyth

[Pythnet](https://docs.pyth.network/price-feeds) price feeds use a "pull" price update model, where users are responsible for posting price updates on-chain when needed. Checkout the usage guide to get started today!

### Gelato

[Gelato](https://docs.gelato.network/web3-services/vrf/understanding-vrf) provides access to Verifiable Random Functions (VRF) on zkSync. VRFs are cryptographic primitives that generate pseudorandom numbers in a way that is provably secure and verifiable. A VRF allows a holder of a private key to produce a random number along with a proof that the number was generated legitimately (making it publically verifable). More information, including how to use VRFs in your dApp, can be found in the Gelato docs.

### Tellor
[Tellor](https://docs.tellor.io) is an oracle protocol that incentivizes an open, permissionless network of data reporting and data validation, ensuring that data can be provided by anyone and checked by everyone. Built for any data type, our network of reporters supports your basic spot prices, more sophisticated pricing specs (TWAP/VWAP), RNG, or any custom data needs you have. If your data can be verified, Tellor can bring it on-chain.

### Usage guides

- [RedStone](../tutorials/tooling-guides/redstone.md)

### Contribute

We believe in collective growth. If you've traversed the oracles' maze and have insights or guides to share, we urge you to contribute. Your knowledge could be the beacon for many. Let's co-create and expand the repository of oracle wisdom on zkSync Era.
